>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we're gonna talk about binary search.
Again, binary search is our search where
we are expecting our array to be sorted.
And we're going to break our list in half
every time, and we're gonna say, is our
value that we're searching for less than,
or greater than, this current location?
So if it's less, we're gonna go to
the left, if it's greater than,
we're gonna go to the right.
All right,
what does this look like in reality?
All right, so we could do the call stack
game with this, that would be a fun one.
And so we just called,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Our
binarySearch with these values.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I'm gonna
keep them up here for reference.
So we're initializing a minimum,
our maximum is list.length -1,
which is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, which is 4.
Initializing a guess
that's gonna be empty.
So while the minimum is less than max, so
while we aren't looping outside
of the bounds of our function.
We are going to grab the center, so our
guess is, let's just start in the middle.
And for, and this is common for
a divide and
conquer algorithm, we start in the middle.
But if you take a look at quick sort,
which we won't have time to cover today,
It's not always gonna be in the middle.
Sometimes you'll pick a point to do
a divide and conquer at the end in
the case of quick sort, but
there's different implementations.
However, you can kind of reason that if
it's divide and conquer, you're probably
gonna split it in the middle,
although sometimes that's not the case.
Okay, so is min less than or
equal to the max, sure is, and
then now our guess is going
to be the second index.
Okay, so did we find it,
0, 1, 2, no, we didn't.
So we're gonna go into this else,
is 7 less than 90?
Yes, so
we're going to increment our min now to 1.
And then we are going to
loop back into our while.
So is 1 less than or
equal to max, sure is.
So now we are going to map
that floor 5 divided by 2.
So we're kind of narrowing
the,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Range
that we're looking in.
Okay, so then that is going to be 2,
did we find it?
No, otherwise we are going to,
so is 7 less than 90?
Yes, then we increment it again,
so now this is 2, okay.
Then 2+4 is 6, so
now this is 3, so it's 0, 1,
2, 3, and then we find it, okay.
Then we find it and we return it,
we did it, there it is.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any
questions about this?
>> Speaker 2: So
if you were dealing with a larger array,
instead of incrementing or
lowering your guess by 1.
You'd want to add the array
length divided by 2,
and each time you divide it by 2-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You can do
it that way, so
you could just divide the length.
So you could divide the length, and
you can also just could choose
an index in the middle,
and compare your item to
the index in the middle.
And say, is it greater than or
it is less than, and
then you can change your starting
index to the one after it.
So your minimum, so say your index,
you were looking for
something that's in
the right of your array, so
it's gonna be greater than your min index.
You can just set your min
index to that current one.
So then the min, and
you can just look on in the left.
That's another way of doing it,
yeah, cool.